---
draft: false
---

import YouTube from '@site/src/components/YouTube';

# W01. Introduction 01
Today, we learn the fundamental question of this course and the principles behind it: how is mechanical intelligence like human intelligence? We will learn about emergence, computation, and have concrete demonstrations of these concepts.

---
## Pre-readings and Videos
Watch these videos and do these readings before coming to class. You don't need to memorize everything from them, you won't be tested, but they will be a helpful foundation to what we will be talking about in class.

### Mark Rober's Introduction to Arduino
<YouTube id="yi29dbPnu28" />
Mark Rober provides an exciting and technically sound introduction to Arduino. There are many, many Arduino videos out there, so this is provided as an example.

### Neuronal Action Potentials
<YouTube id="oa6rvUJlg7o" />
We will be continually asking the question of whether computers are like brains. The fundamental question of whether circuits are like neurons can be approached functionally (it's all just signals), structurally (the "meat" matters), or spiritually (an eternal, ineffable me exists). This video provides a basic scientific understanding of neurons.

### Current Flow
<YouTube id="6xhqMDMMgz0" />
This video provides an introduction to how electricity works. Particularly when comparing to action potentials, it is helpful to have an idea of the physical fundamentals.

## Summary of the Day
**Lesson**. [The 4E model of cognition](/teaching/lessons/4e).
- **Activity**. [Using your body to estimate things](/teaching/activities/estimation).
- **Activity**. [Electricity 101](/teaching/activities/electricity)
  - [TinkerCAD battery lamp circuit](https://www.tinkercad.com/things/iy8Vimd04Vq-electricity-101?sharecode=xxBxLakHuo_24h1a5FRmksUy2j6DGnrMyjheCpC06_g)
  - [TinkerCAD Arduino lamp circuit](https://www.tinkercad.com/things/iplnL8Kj4w6-electricity-101-arduino?sharecode=vHEf-nhnSL9ombgpMq3-TgEiZwTMMwYP4M4s2tnJel0)
  - [TinkerCAD Arduino LED circuit](https://www.tinkercad.com/things/3j4VkpdpGOr-electricity-101-arduino-led?sharecode=g0V3cG0doi-oSA-7YpQhm-tnjeLE7l4DJjiGt5tiN44)
- **Class notes**. [Intro 01](/pdf/W01.%20Intro%2001.pdf)

---
## Learning Goals
1. Be able to explain the "4E" model of cognition: Embodied, Embedded, Extended, and Emergent cognition.
2. Learn about estimation and error, particularly as opposed to common ideas about perfection, mathematical precision, and correctness.
3. Have a practical experience where we make the 4Es very obvious through action.
4. Be able to navigate TinkerCAD, run simulations, and translate between circuit diagrams, code, and real physical objects.