---
draft: true
---

import YouTube from '@site/src/components/YouTube';

# W01. Introduction 02
Today, we inspect structure and function of the purported atomic units of both computation and cognition. We see how digital signals are produced and used, and compare them to how neuronal signals are produced and used. With it, we pose the question of whather brains are "like" computers at the fundamental levels.

---
## Pre-readings and Videos
This week's readings and videos introduce the basic concept that a computer is a good metaphor from the brain. With it, we both advance the argument that it is, but immediately demonstrate a certain amount of hubris if we apply the metaphor naively. The better question is: in what ways can we helpfully use computers as an analogy, model, or simulation of certain aspects of human cognition?

### The Thinking Machines
<YouTube id="clud9Il8DXU" />
Computers have been compared to human brains since their inception. Are the current ways of thinking about computers any different than back then? What's changed?

### Living Things Are Not (20th Century) Machines
- [Living Things Are Not (20th Century) Machines](https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/ecology-and-evolution/articles/10.3389/fevo.2021.650726/full)
The latest technology often gets used as a metaphor for the human body. Is a computer really a good metaphor for the brain?

### (Optional) Open Circuits
The [Open Circuits](https://opencircuitsbook.com/) book is one of the best sources for getting a close-up look at cutaway circuits like the ones I've shown you in class. It is not a required textbook, but if you're interested in learning about circuits, it's an excellent way to get a physical sense for the inner workings.

---
## Summary of the Day

- **Activity**. [Digital Signals](/teaching/activities/activity-01-signals.md).
- **Lesson**. [Neuron Logic](/teaching/lessons/neuron-logic).

---
## Learning Goals
1. Learn the basic physical realities about digital signals and how we use them.
2. Be able to wire a button into a circuit.
3. Compare digital signals with neuronal signals.
4. Learn how a switch is the most basic model of a binary sensing circuit, and use it for foundational understanding of all other sensation.