---
draft: false
---

import YouTube from '@site/src/components/YouTube';


# W03. Movement 03
Last time we discussed basic mechanics and DC motors. Today, we will discuss the control of movement from a signal standpoint. The principle of movement control is a simple process with a complicated sounding name: [Pulse Width Modulation (PWM)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse-width_modulation).

In fact, you've already seen it in the first lab, and it's a natural principle for anyone who has driven a vehicle. It's just a formulation of giving something gas: the more "on" something is, the more it goes.

---
## Pre-readings and Videos
The readings for today focus on signal amplification, which we have to do to control our motors with low-voltage devices like Arduinos.

### The Transistor
<YouTube id="V9xUQWo4vN0" />
Transistors are the foundation of our modern computing era. This video explains the historical positioning of transistors from a time when they were new enough to be exciting.

### Transistors as Amplifiers
<YouTube id="0Z8tslPvU0o" />
This is a good background for mixing higher and lower voltage components, which we do in this class. It's a waste to build our computers to run at high voltages because all of the parts would need to be engineered differently, and would likely be a lot larger and hotter. But we can't make motors move with only 5V. Therefore, we need to use low-voltage logic (5V) to drive high-voltage (12+V) motors.

### Pulse Width Modulation (PWM)
<YouTube id="5nwNKPs2gco" />
Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) is a fundamental encoding system that we use in this class, and it also teaches you to think of your signals very practically.

### Motor Driver Tutorial
This is a good [reference](https://projecthub.arduino.cc/lakshyajhalani56/l298n-motor-driver-arduino-motors-motor-driver-l298n-7e1b3b) for the motor driver we use in this class.

### Metamaterial Computing
[This paper](https://doi.org/10.1145/3025453.3025624) takes the mechanical computer principle and brings it full circle by simulating digital logic gates with flexible 3D printed parts. It helps us question whether computation is actually something that *needs* to be done by a "computer," or whether it is something more abstract and fundamental.

---
## Summary of the Day

<!-- - **Activity**. [Motor Driver](/teaching/activities/motor-driver-101) -->
- **Activity**. Motor Driver
<!-- - **Lesson**. [Modulation](/teaching/lessons/modulation) -->
- **Lesson**. Modulation
<!-- - **Activity**. [A Bad Distance Sensor](/teaching/lessons/distance-counter) -->
- **Activity**. A Bad Distance Sensor

---
## Learning Goals
1. Learn how to wire and program the L298N motor driver.
2. Understand pulse-width modulation (PWM) and apply the underlying principle to drive output systems like motors.
3. Design electro-mechanical encoding schemas using PWM as inspiration.