---
draft: true
---

import YouTube from '@site/src/components/YouTube';


# W07. Detection 04
Today we will learn about classifiers, using line-tracking as an example. Our modern world uses classifiers as the main detection paradigm because creating a simple "rule" for detectors is difficult if not impossible for most tasks with complex and real-world data. We'll see an example of pre-built classifiers that you can use with your robots, and start to think about how to design a system that can use a classifier.

---
## Pre-readings and Videos
The readings for today are mostly here to make the connection between Bayes and classifiers. In reality, the Bayes classifier is just one of many.

### Naive Bayes classifier
The [Naive Bayes Classifier](https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/naive-bayes) should look pretty familiar to you now that we've been talking about Bayes for two weeks. This article goes over the math that we won't cover in class.

### Naive Bayes Video
<YouTube id="lFJbZ6LVxN8" />
A video outline of the math behind the Naive Bayes classifier.

### Random Forest Classifier
<YouTube id="gkXX4h3qYm4" />
There are many different kinds of classifiers. Random forest is a good one, and relatively simple to understand. This video is provided as a counterpoint to the above Bayes content, mostly to illustrate that different classifiers exist.


---
## Summary of the Day

- **Activity**. Line following cases.
- **Activity**. Deep learning detectors in Processing.
- **Activity**. Labelling protocol for your robot.

<!-- - **Lesson**. [Slug](/teaching/lessons/LINK.md). -->

---
## Learning Goals
1. Be able to articulate why simple rule-based detectors can often fail.
2. Outline the basic goals and design parameters of classifiers.
3. Design a labelling protocol for your robot.