
import YouTube from '@site/src/components/YouTube';

# W02. Movement 02
We talked about [sensation](/docs/lectures/01.%20Movement/W02.%20Sensation%2001.md) last time. Let's talk about the other half of the [interactive loop](/docs/concepts/teaching/lessons/lesson-02-agents.mdx), actuation. 

Movement is key to everything we think of as "alive." This lecture introduces the basics of actuation for robotics and humans, comparing the simplest electronic actuators, [DC motors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DC_motor), to the simplest human actuator, [muscles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muscle).

---
## Pre-readings and Videos
Readings intro

### Gears are Spinning Levers
<YouTube id="JOLtS4VUcvQ" />
This video explains the fundamentals behind gears by building up intuition from the simplest machines (levers) to the more complex gears we are used to seeing.

### Mechanical Principles
<YouTube id="mkQ2pXkYjRM" />
This classic video is an aesthetically-pleasing look at basic machine mechanisms. It is an inspiring look at how machines work, and is meant more for absorption and reflection than explanation or memorization. The full video is highly recommended to watch as well, but this is enough to get the idea.

### DC Motors
<YouTube id="CWulQ1ZSE3c" />
DC motors are the basis of robotic movement (although exciting new actuators are being built all the time). By combining DC motors with other machines, we can produce complex and useful motion in robots.

### Robots: Digital and Analog
This [website](https://mind.ilstu.edu/curriculum/robots_digital_and_analog/index.html) is a good introduction to the logical systems of robots. Focus particularly on the water analogy.

---
## Summary of the Day

- **Activity**. [Slug](/docs/concepts/teaching/activities/LINK.md).
- **Lecture**. [Slug](/docs/concepts/teaching/lessons/LINK.md).

---
## Learning Goals
1. Goal
2. Goal